---
title: My Opinionated UnoCSS Shortcuts & Rules #1
date: 2024-10-11
isPublished: true
lang: 'en'
---

> [日本語版](/blog/2024-10-10-a7eebed6675d9a-ja)

I recently started using [UnoCSS](https://unocss.dev/) in my projects, and I'm really enjoying it.

One of my favourite features is [`shortcuts`](https://unocss.dev/config/shortcuts) and [`rules`](https://unocss.dev/config/rules).
Shortcuts allow us to define a single shorthand for a set of multiple classes. For example, instead of writing `class="p-4 m-4 text-red"`, we can write `class="card"`.
Rules allow us to define a set of classes that should be applied to a specific element. This is really useful when creating complicated rules.

I created a library, [`@ryoppippi/unocss-preset`](https://github.com/ryoppippi/unocss-preset), which includes my opinionated shortcuts and rules.

I'd like to share some of them.

> [!Warning]
> Using shortcuts that are too short can make your code less readable, so be careful when creating your own shortcuts.

## `flex` shortcuts

<!-- spellchecker:off -->

You may have been confused about `items-center` and `justify-center` before. `items-center` is for vertical alignment, and `justify-center` is for horizontal alignment. When setting margins, we can use `mx-` for horizontal margins and `my-` for vertical margins. So, I created a shortcut for `flex` based on these naming rules.

<!-- spellchecker:on -->

<!-- spellchecker:off -->

```ts
const shortcuts = {
	fxc: 'flex justify-center',
	fxs: 'flex justify-start',
	fxe: 'flex justify-end',
	fyc: 'flex items-center',
	fys: 'flex items-start',
	fye: 'flex items-end',
	fcc: 'flex items-center justify-center',
};
```

<!-- spellchecker:on -->

## `grid` shortcuts

I also created a shortcut for grid.

<!-- spellchecker:off -->

You can centre the content using `grid` and `place-content-center`! This is easy. Additionally, you can use `place-items-center` to centre multiple items.

```ts
const shortcuts = {
	gc: 'grid place-content-center',
	gcc: 'gc place-items-center',
};
```

<!-- spellchecker:on -->

I’ll add more shortcuts in the future. When I do, I’ll write a new post.

So, see you next time!
